ExtFilterDefine

Description:  Define an external filter 
Syntax:   ExtFilterDefine  filtername   parameters   
Context:  server config 
Status:  Extension 
Module:  mod_ext_filter 

 The  ExtFilterDefine  directive defines the
    characteristics of an external filter, including the program to
    run and its arguments. 

      filtername  specifies the name of the filter being
    defined. This name can then be used in   SetOutputFilter  
    directives. It must be unique among all registered filters.
     At the present time, no error is reported by the
    register-filter API, so a problem with duplicate names isn't
    reported to the user.  

     Subsequent parameters can appear in any order and define the
    external command to run and certain other characteristics. The
    only required parameter is  cmd= . These parameters
    are: 

       cmd= cmdline   

       The  cmd=  keyword allows you to specify the
      external command to run. If there are arguments after the
      program name, the command line should be surrounded in
      quotation marks ( e.g. ,  cmd=" /bin/mypgm 
       arg1   arg2 " .) Normal shell quoting is
      not necessary since the program is run directly, bypassing the shell.
      Program arguments are blank-delimited. A backslash can be used to
      escape blanks which should be part of a program argument. Any
      backslashes which are part of the argument must be escaped with
      backslash themselves.  In addition to the standard CGI environment
      variables, DOCUMENT_URI, DOCUMENT_PATH_INFO, and
      QUERY_STRING_UNESCAPED will also be set for the program. 

        mode= mode   

       Use  mode=output  (the default) for filters which
      process the response.  Use  mode=input  for filters
      which process the request.   mode=input  is available
      in Apache 2.1 and later. 

        intype= imt   

       This parameter specifies the internet media type ( i.e. ,
      MIME type) of documents which should be filtered. By default,
      all documents are filtered. If  intype=  is
      specified, the filter will be disabled for documents of other
      types. 

        outtype= imt   

       This parameter specifies the internet media type ( i.e. ,
      MIME type) of filtered documents. It is useful when the
      filter changes the internet media type as part of the
      filtering operation. By default, the internet media type is
      unchanged. 

        PreservesContentLength  

       The  PreservesContentLength  keyword specifies
      that the filter preserves the content length. This is not the
      default, as most filters change the content length. In the
      event that the filter doesn't modify the length, this keyword
      should be specified. 

        ftype= filtertype   

       This parameter specifies the numeric value for filter type
      that the filter should be registered as.  The default value,
      AP_FTYPE_RESOURCE, is sufficient in most cases.  If the filter
      needs to operate at a different point in the filter chain than
      resource filters, then this parameter will be necessary.  See
      the AP_FTYPE_foo definitions in util_filter.h for appropriate
      values. 

        disableenv= env   

       This parameter specifies the name of an environment variable
      which, if set, will disable the filter. 

        enableenv= env   

       This parameter specifies the name of an environment variable
      which must be set, or the filter will be disabled. 
      