Listen

Description:  IP addresses and ports that the server
listens to 
Syntax:   Listen [ IP-address :] portnumber  [ protocol ]  
Context:  server config 
Status:  MPM 
Module:    mpm_netware  ,   mpm_winnt  ,   mpmt_os2  ,   prefork  ,   worker  ,   event   
Compatibility:  The  protocol  argument was added in 2.1.5 

 The  Listen  directive instructs Apache httpd to
    listen to only specific IP addresses or ports; by default it
    responds to requests on all IP interfaces.  Listen 
    is now a required directive. If it is not in the config file, the
    server will fail to start. This is a change from previous versions
    of Apache httpd. 

     The  Listen  directive tells the server to
    accept incoming requests on the specified port or address-and-port
    combination. If only a port number is specified, the server listens to
    the given port on all interfaces. If an IP address is given as well
    as a port, the server will listen on the given port and
    interface. 

     Multiple  Listen  directives may be used to
    specify a number of addresses and ports to listen to. The server will
    respond to requests from any of the listed addresses and ports. 

     For example, to make the server accept connections on both
    port 80 and port 8000, use: 

     Listen 80
Listen 8000 


     To make the server accept connections on two specified
    interfaces and port numbers, use  

     Listen 192.170.2.1:80
Listen 192.170.2.5:8000 


     IPv6 addresses must be surrounded in square brackets, as in the
    following example: 

     Listen [2001:db8::a00:20ff:fea7:ccea]:80 


     The optional  protocol  argument is not required for most
       configurations. If not specified,  https  is the default for
       port 443 and  http  the default for all other ports.  The
       protocol is used to determine which module should handle a request, and
       to apply protocol specific optimizations with the
         AcceptFilter   directive. 

     You only need to set the protocol if you are running on non-standard
       ports.  For example, running an  https  site on port 8443: 

     Listen 192.170.2.1:8443 https 


      Error condition 
      Multiple  Listen  directives for the same ip
      address and port will result in an  Address already in use 
      error message.
     


 See also 
   DNS Issues  
  Setting which addresses and ports Apache HTTP Server
    uses  
  Further
discussion of the  Address already in use  error message,
including other causes.  
  