ProxyHTMLURLMap

Description:  Defines a rule to rewrite HTML links 
Syntax:   ProxyHTMLURLMap  from-pattern to-pattern [flags] [cond]   
Context:  server config, virtual host, directory 
Status:  Base 
Module:  mod_proxy_html 
Compatibility:  Version 2.4 and later; available as a third-party
module for earlier 2.x versions. 

 This is the key directive for rewriting HTML links.  When parsing a document,
whenever a link target matches  from-pattern , the matching
portion will be rewritten to  to-pattern , as modified by any
flags supplied and by the  ProxyHTMLExtended 
directive. 

 The optional third argument may define any of the following
 Flags .  Flags are case-sensitive. 
  h 
  Ignore HTML links (pass through unchanged)  
 e 
  Ignore scripting events (pass through unchanged)  
 c 
  Pass embedded script and style sections through untouched.  

 L 
  Last-match.  If this rule matches, no more rules are applied
(note that this happens automatically for HTML links).  
 l 
  Opposite to L.  Overrides the one-change-only default
behaviour with HTML links.  
 R 
  Use Regular Expression matching-and-replace.   from-pattern 
is a regexp, and  to-pattern  a replacement string that may be
based on the regexp.  Regexp memory is supported: you can use brackets ()
in the  from-pattern  and retrieve the matches with $1 to $9
in the  to-pattern . 

 If R is not set, it will use string-literal search-and-replace.
The logic is  starts-with  in HTML links, but
 contains  in scripting events and embedded script and style sections.
 
 
 x 
  Use POSIX extended Regular Expressions.  Only applicable with R.  
 i 
  Case-insensitive matching.  Only applicable with R.  

 n 
  Disable regexp memory (for speed).  Only applicable with R.  
 s 
  Line-based regexp matching.  Only applicable with R.  
 ^ 
  Match at start only.  This applies only to string matching
(not regexps) and is irrelevant to HTML links.  
 $ 
  Match at end only.  This applies only to string matching
(not regexps) and is irrelevant to HTML links.  
 V 
  Interpolate environment variables in  to-pattern .
A string of the form  ${varname|default}  will be replaced by the
value of environment variable  varname .  If that is unset, it
is replaced by  default .  The  |default  is optional. 
 NOTE: interpolation will only be enabled if
 ProxyHTMLInterp  is  On . 
 

 v 
  Interpolate environment variables in  from-pattern .
Patterns supported are as above. 
 NOTE: interpolation will only be enabled if
 ProxyHTMLInterp  is  On . 
 
  The optional fourth  cond  argument defines a condition
that will be evaluated per Request, provided
 ProxyHTMLInterp  is  On .
If the condition evaluates FALSE the map will not be applied in this request.
If TRUE, or if no condition is defined, the map is applied. 
 A  cond  is evaluated by the  Expression Parser .  In addition, the simpler syntax of conditions
in mod_proxy_html 3.x for HTTPD 2.0 and 2.2 is also supported. 

 