Allow

Description:  Controls which hosts can access an area of the
server 
Syntax:    Allow from all| host |env=[!] env-variable 
[ host |env=[!] env-variable ] ...  
Context:  directory, .htaccess 
Override:  Limit 
Status:  Extension 
Module:  mod_access_compat 

 The  Allow  directive affects which hosts can
    access an area of the server. Access can be controlled by
    hostname, IP address, IP address range, or by other
    characteristics of the client request captured in environment
    variables. 

     The first argument to this directive is always
     from . The subsequent arguments can take three
    different forms. If  Allow from all  is specified, then
    all hosts are allowed access, subject to the configuration of the
      Deny   and   Order   directives as discussed
    below. To allow only particular hosts or groups of hosts to access
    the server, the  host  can be specified in any of the
    following formats: 

      A (partial) domain-name 

       
       Allow from example.org
Allow from .net example.edu 

       Hosts whose names match, or end in, this string are allowed
      access. Only complete components are matched, so the above
      example will match  foo.example.org  but it will not
      match  fooexample.org . This configuration will cause
      Apache httpd to perform a double DNS lookup on the client IP
      address, regardless of the setting of the   HostnameLookups   directive.  It will do
      a reverse DNS lookup on the IP address to find the associated
      hostname, and then do a forward lookup on the hostname to assure
      that it matches the original IP address.  Only if the forward
      and reverse DNS are consistent and the hostname matches will
      access be allowed.  

       A full IP address 

       
       Allow from 10.1.2.3
Allow from 192.168.1.104 192.168.1.205 

       An IP address of a host allowed access  

       A partial IP address 

       
       Allow from 10.1
Allow from 10 172.20 192.168.2 

       The first 1 to 3 bytes of an IP address, for subnet
      restriction.  

       A network/netmask pair 

       
       Allow from 10.1.0.0/255.255.0.0 

       A network a.b.c.d, and a netmask w.x.y.z. For more
      fine-grained subnet restriction.  

       A network/nnn CIDR specification 

       
       Allow from 10.1.0.0/16 

       Similar to the previous case, except the netmask consists of
      nnn high-order 1 bits.  
      Note that the last three examples above match exactly the
    same set of hosts. 

     IPv6 addresses and IPv6 subnets can be specified as shown
    below: 

     Allow from 2001:db8::a00:20ff:fea7:ccea
Allow from 2001:db8::a00:20ff:fea7:ccea/10 


     The third format of the arguments to the
     Allow  directive allows access to the server
    to be controlled based on the existence of an  environment variable . When  Allow from
    env= env-variable   is specified, then the request is
    allowed access if the environment variable  env-variable 
    exists. When  Allow from env=! env-variable   is
    specified, then the request is allowed access if the environment
    variable  env-variable  doesn't exist.
    The server provides the ability to set environment
    variables in a flexible way based on characteristics of the client
    request using the directives provided by
      mod_setenvif  . Therefore, this directive can be
    used to allow access based on such factors as the clients
     User-Agent  (browser type),  Referer , or
    other HTTP request header fields. 

     SetEnvIf User-Agent ^KnockKnock/2\.0 let_me_in
< Directory /docroot >
    Order Deny,Allow
    Deny from all
    Allow from env=let_me_in
< /Directory > 


     In this case, browsers with a user-agent string beginning
    with  KnockKnock/2.0  will be allowed access, and all
    others will be denied. 

       Merging of configuration sections 
       When any directive provided by this module is used in a new 
      configuration section, no directives provided by this module are
      inherited from previous configuration sections. 
     


 