KeptBodySize

Description:  Keep the request body instead of discarding it up to
the specified maximum size, for potential use by filters such as
mod_include. 
Syntax:   KeptBodySize  maximum size in bytes   
Default:   KeptBodySize 0  
Context:  directory 
Status:  Base 
Module:  mod_request 

 Under normal circumstances, request handlers such as the
    default handler for static files will discard the request body
    when it is not needed by the request handler. As a result,
    filters such as mod_include are limited to making  GET  requests
    only when including other URLs as subrequests, even if the
    original request was a  POST  request, as the discarded
    request body is no longer available once filter processing is
    taking place. 

     When this directive has a value greater than zero, request
    handlers that would otherwise discard request bodies will
    instead set the request body aside for use by filters up to
    the maximum size specified. In the case of the mod_include
    filter, an attempt to  POST  a request to the static
    shtml file will cause any subrequests to be  POST 
    requests, instead of  GET  requests as before. 

     This feature makes it possible to break up complex web pages and
    web applications into small individual components, and combine
    the components and the surrounding web page structure together
    using   mod_include  . The components can take the
    form of CGI programs, scripted languages, or URLs reverse proxied
    into the URL space from another server using
      mod_proxy  . 

      Note:  Each request set aside has to be set
    aside in temporary RAM until the request is complete. As a result,
    care should be taken to ensure sufficient RAM is available on the
    server to support the intended load. Use of this directive
    should be limited to where needed on targeted parts of your
    URL space, and with the lowest possible value that is still big
    enough to hold a request body. 

     If the request size sent by the client exceeds the maximum
    size allocated by this directive, the server will return
     413 Request Entity Too Large . 


 See also 
   mod_include  documentation 
  mod_auth_form  documentation 
  