NoProxy

Description:  Hosts, domains, or networks that will be connected to
directly 
Syntax:   NoProxy  host  [ host ] ...  
Context:  server config, virtual host 
Status:  Extension 
Module:  mod_proxy 

 This directive is only useful for Apache httpd proxy servers within
    intranets.  The  NoProxy  directive specifies a
    list of subnets, IP addresses, hosts and/or domains, separated by
    spaces. A request to a host which matches one or more of these is
    always served directly, without forwarding to the configured
      ProxyRemote   proxy server(s). 

      Example  ProxyRemote  *  http://firewall.example.com:81
NoProxy         .example.com 192.168.112.0/21 
 

     The  host  arguments to the  NoProxy 
    directive are one of the following type list: 

        Domain   
     
     A  Domain  is a partially qualified DNS domain name, preceded
    by a period. It represents a list of hosts which logically belong to the
    same DNS domain or zone ( i.e. , the suffixes of the hostnames are
    all ending in  Domain ). 

      Examples   
      .com .example.org.
       

     To distinguish  Domain s from   Hostname  s (both syntactically and semantically; a DNS domain can
    have a DNS A record, too!),  Domain s are always written with a
    leading period. 

      Note 
       Domain name comparisons are done without regard to the case, and
       Domain s are always assumed to be anchored in the root of the
      DNS tree, therefore two domains  .ExAmple.com  and
       .example.com.  (note the trailing period) are considered
      equal. Since a domain comparison does not involve a DNS lookup, it is much
      more efficient than subnet comparison. 
      

    
       SubNet   
     
     A  SubNet  is a partially qualified internet address in
    numeric (dotted quad) form, optionally followed by a slash and the netmask,
    specified as the number of significant bits in the  SubNet . It is
    used to represent a subnet of hosts which can be reached over a common
    network interface. In the absence of the explicit net mask it is assumed
    that omitted (or zero valued) trailing digits specify the mask. (In this
    case, the netmask can only be multiples of 8 bits wide.) Examples: 

       192.168  or  192.168.0.0  
     the subnet 192.168.0.0 with an implied netmask of 16 valid bits
    (sometimes used in the netmask form  255.255.0.0 ) 
      192.168.112.0/21  
     the subnet  192.168.112.0/21  with a netmask of 21
    valid bits (also used in the form  255.255.248.0 ) 
      As a degenerate case, a  SubNet  with 32 valid bits is the
    equivalent to an   IPAddr  , while a  SubNet  with zero
    valid bits ( e.g. , 0.0.0.0/0) is the same as the constant
     _Default_ , matching any IP address.  

    
       IPAddr   
     
     A  IPAddr  represents a fully qualified internet address in
    numeric (dotted quad) form. Usually, this address represents a host, but
    there need not necessarily be a DNS domain name connected with the
    address. 
      Example   
      192.168.123.7
       

      Note 
       An  IPAddr  does not need to be resolved by the DNS system, so
      it can result in more effective apache performance. 
      

    
       Hostname   
     
     A  Hostname  is a fully qualified DNS domain name which can
    be resolved to one or more   IPAddrs   via the
    DNS domain name service. It represents a logical host (in contrast to
      Domain  s, see above) and must be resolvable
    to at least one   IPAddr   (or often to a list
    of hosts with different   IPAddr  s). 

      Examples   
      prep.ai.example.edu 
      www.example.org
       

      Note 
       In many situations, it is more effective to specify an   IPAddr   in place of a  Hostname  since a
      DNS lookup can be avoided. Name resolution in Apache httpd can take a remarkable
      deal of time when the connection to the name server uses a slow PPP
      link. 
        Hostname  comparisons are done without regard to the case,
      and  Hostname s are always assumed to be anchored in the root
      of the DNS tree, therefore two hosts  WWW.ExAmple.com 
      and  www.example.com.  (note the trailing period) are
      considered equal. 
       
      See also 
   DNS Issues  
  