Order

Description:  Controls the default access state and the order in which
 Allow  and  Deny  are
evaluated. 
Syntax:    Order  ordering   
Default:   Order Deny,Allow  
Context:  directory, .htaccess 
Override:  Limit 
Status:  Extension 
Module:  mod_access_compat 

 The  Order  directive, along with the
      Allow   and
      Deny   directives,
    controls a three-pass access control system. The first pass
    processes either all   Allow   or all   Deny   directives, as specified
    by the   Order  
    directive. The second pass parses the rest of the directives
    (  Deny   or
      Allow  ). The third
    pass applies to all requests which do not match either of the first
    two. 

     Note that all   Allow   and   Deny   directives are
    processed, unlike a typical firewall, where only the first match is
    used. The last match is effective (also unlike a typical firewall).
    Additionally, the order in which lines appear in the configuration
    files is not significant -- all   Allow   lines are processed as
    one group, all   Deny   lines are considered as
    another, and the default state is considered by itself. 

      Ordering  is one of: 

       Allow,Deny  

       First, all   Allow   directives are
      evaluated; at least one must match, or the request is rejected.
      Next, all   Deny  
      directives are evaluated. If any matches, the request is rejected.
      Last, any requests which do not match an   Allow   or a   Deny   directive are denied
      by default. 

        Deny,Allow  

       First, all   Deny   directives are
      evaluated; if any match, the request is denied
       unless  it also matches an   Allow   directive. Any
      requests which do not match any   Allow   or   Deny   directives are
      permitted. 

        Mutual-failure  

       This order has the same effect as  Order
      Allow,Deny  and is deprecated in its favor. 
      Keywords may only be separated by a comma;  no whitespace 
    is allowed between them. 

       Match 
         Allow,Deny result 
         Deny,Allow result 
         Match Allow only 
         Request allowed 
         Request allowed 
         Match Deny only 
         Request denied 
         Request denied 
         No match 
         Default to second directive: Denied 
         Default to second directive: Allowed 
         Match both Allow &amp; Deny 
         Final match controls: Denied 
         Final match controls: Allowed 
         In the following example, all hosts in the example.org domain
    are allowed access; all other hosts are denied access. 

     Order Deny,Allow
Deny from all
Allow from example.org 


     In the next example, all hosts in the example.org domain are
    allowed access, except for the hosts which are in the
    foo.example.org subdomain, who are denied access. All hosts not
    in the example.org domain are denied access because the default
    state is to   Deny  
    access to the server. 

     Order Allow,Deny
Allow from example.org
Deny from foo.example.org 


     On the other hand, if the  Order  in the
    last example is changed to  Deny,Allow , all hosts will
    be allowed access. This happens because, regardless of the actual
    ordering of the directives in the configuration file, the
     Allow from example.org  will be evaluated last and will
    override the  Deny from foo.example.org . All hosts not in
    the  example.org  domain will also be allowed access
    because the default state is   Allow  . 

     The presence of an  Order  directive can
    affect access to a part of the server even in the absence of
    accompanying   Allow  
    and   Deny  
    directives because of its effect on the default access state. For
    example, 

     < Directory /www >
    Order Allow,Deny
< /Directory > 


     will Deny all access to the  /www  directory
    because the default access state is set to
      Deny  . 

     The  Order  directive controls the order of access
    directive processing only within each phase of the server's
    configuration processing. This implies, for example, that an
      Allow   or   Deny   directive occurring in a
      < Location >   section will
    always be evaluated after an   Allow   or   Deny   directive occurring in a
      < Directory >   section or
     .htaccess  file, regardless of the setting of the
     Order  directive. For details on the merging
    of configuration sections, see the documentation on  How Directory, Location and Files sections
    work . 

       Merging of configuration sections 
       When any directive provided by this module is used in a new 
      configuration section, no directives provided by this module are
      inherited from previous configuration sections. 
     


 