SSLCertificateFile

Description:  Server PEM-encoded X.509 certificate data file 
Syntax:   SSLCertificateFile  file-path   
Context:  server config, virtual host 
Status:  Extension 
Module:  mod_ssl 

 
This directive points to a file with certificate data in PEM format.
At a minimum, the file must include an end-entity (leaf) certificate.
Beginning with version 2.4.8, it may also include intermediate CA
certificates, sorted from leaf to root, and obsoletes
  SSLCertificateChainFile  .
 

 
Additional optional elements are DH parameters and/or an EC curve name
for ephemeral keys, as generated by  openssl dhparam  and
 openssl ecparam , respectively (supported in version 2.4.7
or later) and finally, the end-entity certificate's private key.
If the private key is encrypted, the pass phrase dialog is forced
at startup time. 

 
This directive can be used multiple times (referencing different filenames)
to support multiple algorithms for server authentication - typically
RSA, DSA, and ECC. The number of supported algorithms depends on the
OpenSSL version being used for mod_ssl: with version 1.0.0 or later,
 openssl list-public-key-algorithms  will output a list
of supported algorithms. 

 
When running with OpenSSL 1.0.2 or later, this directive allows
to configure the intermediate CA chain on a per-certificate basis,
which removes a limitation of the (now obsolete)
  SSLCertificateChainFile   directive.
DH and ECDH parameters, however, are only read from the first
 SSLCertificateFile  directive, as they
are applied independently of the authentication algorithm type. 

 
 DH parameter interoperability with primes  > 1024 bit 
 
Beginning with version 2.4.7, mod_ssl makes use of
standardized DH parameters with prime lengths of 2048, 3072 and 4096 bits
(from  RFC 3526 ), and hands
them out to clients based on the length of the certificate's RSA/DSA key.
With Java-based clients in particular (Java 7 or earlier), this may lead
to handshake failures - see this
 FAQ answer  for working around
such issues.
 
 

  Example  SSLCertificateFile /usr/local/apache2/conf/ssl.crt/server.crt 
 

 