TypesConfig

Description:  The location of the  mime.types  file 
Syntax:   TypesConfig  file-path   
Default:   TypesConfig conf/mime.types  
Context:  server config 
Status:  Base 
Module:  mod_mime 

 The  TypesConfig  directive sets the
    location of the  media types 
    configuration file.  File-path  is relative to the
      ServerRoot  . This file sets
    the default list of mappings from filename extensions to content
    types. Most administrators use the  mime.types  file
    provided by their OS, which associates common filename
    extensions with the official list of IANA registered media types
    maintained at  http://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/index.html 
    as well as a large number of unofficial types.  This
    simplifies the  httpd.conf  file by providing the
    majority of media-type definitions, and may be overridden by
      AddType   directives as
    needed. You should not edit the  mime.types  file,
    because it may be replaced when you upgrade your server. 

     The file contains lines in the format of the arguments to
    an   AddType   directive: 

       
       media-type  [ extension ] ...
       

     The case of the extension does not matter. Blank lines, and lines
    beginning with a hash character ( # ) are ignored.
    Empty lines are there for completeness (of the mime.types file).
    Apache httpd can still determine these types with   mod_mime_magic  .
     

     
      Please do  not  send requests to the Apache HTTP
      Server Project to add any new entries in the distributed
       mime.types  file unless (1) they are already
      registered with IANA, and (2) they use widely accepted,
      non-conflicting filename extensions across platforms.
       category/x-subtype  requests will be automatically
      rejected, as will any new two-letter extensions as they will
      likely conflict later with the already crowded language and
      character set namespace.
     

 See also 
    mod_mime_magic   
  